Digital Voice - 20130203
========================

Windows
-------

To use the Digital Voice software (D-Star only at present) you will first need
to build the latest version of wxWidgets (http://www.wxwidgets.org), the version
I used was 2.8.12, I also installed it in the default location which is
C:\wxWidgets-2.8.12.

You will also need a copy of PortAudio (http://www.portaudio.com), I used the
latest stable version which is currently 20071207 and it appears to be fine. I
put that into the "Visual Studio 2008\Projects" folder alongside the source code
for Digital Voice itself.

For compiling I use Visual C++ 2008 Express Edition downloaded from Microsoft
for free. I recommend that you use the same.

To build wxWidgets, you simply need to open Visual Studio 2008 using the File ->
Open -> Projects/Solutions and load the wx_dll.dsw file to be found in
wxWidgets-2.8.12\build\msw directory and then go into Batch Build and select the
DLL Unicode Debug and DLL Uncode Release entries for every one, this take a 
little time! Then build them.

Unfortunately building the software under Windows also requires the downloading 
of a very large file from Microsoft, the WDK. Adding this to Visual Studio 
causes a lot of problems, so I created an extract of the required files from the 
kit and used that instead. If you do want to build this software from scratch, 
then download the files HID.zip and WinUSB.zip from the Yahoo! group. Otherwise
simply use the supplied binaries.

The path names for things like wxWidgets, PortAudio, HID, and WinUSB are embedded
within the Solution and Project preferences, and will need changing if anything
other than these default locations are used. The first pass through the compiler
will no doubt tell you all that you need to know if there are problems.

Once you have built the executables, you will need to copy the 
portaudio_x86.dll, wxbase28u_vc_custom.dll, wxmsw28u_adv_vc_custom.dll, and
wxmsw28u_core_vc_custom.dll files to the same directory as your newly built
executables in order for it to run. If you are running in debug mode then the
required wxWidgets files have the names xxx28ud_xxxx instead. These can be found
in the wxWidgets-2.8.12\lib\vc_dll directory.

It is also probable that you'll need to install a copy of the latest Visual C++
run-time libraries from Microsoft, if you are not running the Digital Voice 
software on the same machine as the development/compilation was done on. To do 
this you need to copy and run the Vcredist_x86.exe file which is found at 
<http://www.microsoft.com/en-gb/download/details.aspx?id=5582>

Linux
-----

You need to ensure that wxGTK, libusb-1.0 and PortAudio are already installed
on your machine, under Ubuntu these are available from the standard repositories,
the versions provided are adequate. Alternatively install them from scratch,
wxGTK can be found at http://www.wxwidgets.org and PortAudio can be found at
http://www.portaudio.com. If you do a "make install" on both then they'll be
installed in the right places and nothing more needs to be done.

To actually build the software, type "make" in the same directory as this file
and all should build without errors, there may be a warning or two though. Once
compiled, do "make install".

Depending on your Linux distribution, you mat find that both PortAudio and
wxWidgets are available in a suitable repository, however the names probably
are different in each one. wxGTK is probably named something like
wxGTK-devel-xxxx for example, and make sure that you get a version in the 2.8
series.
